---
layout: default
title: CS1231/S Discrete Structures
parent: Modules
grand_parent: Education
has_children: false
---

# CS1231
{: .fs-9 }

Discrete Structures
{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }

---

## Description

This module introduces mathematical tools required in the study of computer science. Topics include: (1) Logic and proof techniques: propositions, conditionals, quantifications. (2) Relations and Functions: Equivalence relations and partitions. Partially ordered sets. Well-Ordering Principle. Function equality. Boolean/identity/inverse functions. Bijection. (3) Mathematical formulation of data models (linear model, trees, graphs). (4) Counting and Combinatoric: Pigeonhole Principle. Inclusion-Exclusion Principle. Number of relations on a set, number of injections from one finite set to another, Diagonalisation proof: An infinite countable set has an uncountable power set; Algorithmic proof: An infinite set has a countably infinite subset. Subsets of countable sets are countable.<sup>[1](#references)</sup>.

## Review

### Semester

AY2020/21 Semester 1

### Teaching Staff

Prof Colin Tan & Dr Li Wei

### Rating

* Overall: ★★★★★ (5/5)

* Interestingness: ★★★★★ (5/5)

* Usefulness: ★★★★★ (5/5)

* Difficulty: ★☆☆☆☆ (1/5)

### Assessments

* 1 Final Examination - 50%

* 1 Midterm Examination - 25%

* 2 Take-home Assignments - 20%

* Tutorial Attendance - 5%

### Grades

* Expected Grade: A+

* Actual Grade: A+

### Opinions

This module introduces basic discrete mathematics structures to be used in computer science and mathematics, including logic, number theory, induction, sets and functions, counting and probability, graphs and trees. All the examinations are open-book. Many contents are extensions of H2 Mathematics. This module involves a great number of proofs and we are required to write proofs in a structural and logical way, compared with before. However, there was not many proof questions in the final exams. Overall, this is a module that requires understanding of new concepts but only a little calculation. It is not difficult but requires comprehensive and thorough understanding.

Prof. Tan and Prof. Li follow a steady pace in conducting lectures and both of them are willing to answer questions after class. For tutorials, my tutor is very helpful and pays attention to details ("details" is very important to this modules and some steps considered as "trivial" might be instead "essential"!).

There are both MCQs and MRQs in mid-term and final exams, and the MRQs are quite torturous since we need to select all the correct options and there is no partial credit. This requires high level of understanding of concepts. Also, in final exams, most questions asks us not to show working hence there is no partial credit either. However, for the two take-home assignments, working is required and the average mark is quite high.

All in all, this module is rather simple compared with other MA and CS 1k modules (to me) and the preparation time spent is also less compared with other modules.

## Materials

* [Final Examination Cheatsheet](https://snoidetx.github.io/Snoidepaedia/pdf/NUS-CS1231-FinalExaminationCheatsheet.pdf)

* [Midterm Examination Cheatsheet](https://snoidetx.github.io/Snoidepaedia/pdf/NUS-CS1231-MidtermExaminationCheatsheet.pdf)

---

#### References
[1] Quoted from NUSMods (https://nusmods.com/modules/CS1231/discrete-structures).