---
layout: default
title: CS3244 Machine Learning
parent: Modules
grand_parent: Education
has_children: true
---

# CS3244
{: .fs-9 }

Machine Learning
{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }

---

## Description

This module introduces basic concepts and algorithms in machine learning and neural networks. The main reason for studying computational learning is to make better use of powerful computers to learn knowledge (or regularities) from the raw data. The ultimate objective is to build self-learning systems to relieve human from some of already-too-many programming tasks. At the end of the course, students are expected to be familiar with the theories and paradigms of computational learning, and capable of implementing basic learning systems<sup>[1](References)</sup>.

## Review

### Semester

AY2021/22 Semester 2

### Teaching Staff

Prof Bryan Low & Dr Daren Ler

### Rating

* Overall: ★★★★★ (5/5)

* Interestingness: ★★★★★ (5/5)

* Usefulness: ★★★★★ (5/5)

* Difficulty: ★☆☆☆☆ (1/5)

### Assessments

* 1 Final Examination - 40%

* 1 Midterm Examination - 30%

* 1 Term Project - 25%

* Graded Tutorials, Class Attendance, Weekly Quizzes - 5%

### Grades

* Expected Grade: A+

* Actual Grade: A+

### Opinions

This module introduces fundamental machine learning methodologies (basic concept learning, decision trees, neural networks, clustering, Bayesian networks) and evaluation techniques (hypothesis testing, computational learning theory, etc.). Prof Bryan has taught this modules for several semesters already, hence he knew the content well and organised everything in order. Meanwhile, Dr Ler is new to this module (and to university-level teaching) and perhaps he is still learning from Bryan to become better, but indeed his part of teaching was as unclear/disorganised as what we know about his CS3243 this semester. Luckily, his part was not covered in both exams.

I would give a rating of 100/10 to this module but 3/10 for the difficulty. The workload of this module is trivial compared with the other CS modules I took in this semester (namely CS2103, CS2106, CS3230, CS3243). The weekly quizzes consist of only about 3 MCQs, whereas the weekly quizzes for CS2103 contain as many as 70+ MCQs and for CS3243, 15+ MCQs. The graded assignments contain only 1 question typically, and usually can be answered in several lines (< 5). As for the content, it is very easy if you have taken CS1231/S (although it is not a pre-requisite to this module) and got a good grade/mastered the content well. Almost all the notations Bryan used as mentioned in other posts come from CS1231/S and they will not cause any confusions if you are familiar with them enough. I admit that I learned most of the contents simply by looking through Bryan's slides, and only went to listen to his lectures when there is something that I really cannot infer or some details in the quiz that I need to clarify (p.s. for Daren's part, he made his own slides and I cannot understand his slides and cannot do the quizzes from what I learnt from his lectures hence I had to learn from Google). I felt like I learnt a lot from Bryan's lectures although I spent very limited time on them - they are just so inspiring! I would definitely like to take his other modules and learn from him in future, if possible.

The term project is released early and can start from around midterm (recess week). You can form teams of 3 or 2 and Bryan pairs 1 3-person team and 1 2-person team to form a 5-person team. I do not know what algorithm he uses to make the pairing but my advice is to find another 2 reliable teammates if you want to get a good mark and are reliable yourself. The project is very flexible. You can brainstorm topics that you want to work on and discuss with Bryan, then he will give very useful suggestions and encouragements. Also, since you are expected to explore higher-level modern ML techniques by yourselves in the project, you will get the chance to expose to such models as RNN, CNN, etc. With the content knowledge learnt in lecture, it is very easy to understand how these higher-level techniques work too. To make an analogy, it is like you learn programming methodologies in CS2030 but eventually you will use different programming languages in the workplace. Bryan is teaching the methodology, not the tools. Once you have the methodology, the tools will not be a problem. That is another reason why I am saying this module is easy but useful.

For the exams, they are of similar formats and they are very doable. The questions are actually similar to past-year questions as well. If you understand the concept of bijection, you will find all questions are the same one - they can be mapped to each other and are just different forms of expression caused by different representation of hypothesis spaces (best reflected in the candidate eliminating questions). I got 59/60 for midterm (mistook disjunctive normal form as conjunctive normal form), and somewhere similar for finals, I think (the marks are not to be released by Prof). 25%-median-75% for midterm is like 23-28-33 so you indeed have the chance to stand out.

Overall, I do not have much experiences on ML (almost 0, if you ask me what I know, I cannot speak a thing) before taking this module, but still get a good grade with comparably less time. I believe the key to this module is your CS1231/S. If you got A/A+ for CS1231/S, just take it under Prof Bryan, it will be an enjoyable module. All the best!

## Materials

* [Final Examination Cheatsheet](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/snoidetx/Snoidepaedia/master/contents/education/modules/../../../../../../../../../../../contents/education/modules/NUS-CS3244-FinalExaminationCheatsheet.pdf)

* [Midterm Examination Cheatsheet](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/snoidetx/Snoidepaedia/master/contents/education/modules/../../../../../../../../../../../contents/education/modules/NUS-CS3244-MidtermExaminationCheatsheet.pdf)

---

#### References
[1] Quoted from NUSMods (https://nusmods.com/modules/CS3244/machine-learning).