---
layout: default
title: FMS1218B How come aspirin can relieve my headache
parent: Modules
grand_parent: Education
has_children: false
---

# FMS1218B
{: .fs-9 }

How come aspirin can relieve my headache?
{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }

---

## Description

We use many different medications every day, e.g. aspirin for headache, Claritin for allergy and Lipitor for cholesterol control. However, people usually do not know the exact protein target and mechanism of action of the medication they take. This module exposes students to the use of computer software to investigate structure of the drug molecule in complex with the protein target to understand its mechanism of action. A better drug molecule can be rationally designed to have reduced side-effect, improved efficacy and bioavailability. Each student will select one drug to explain and present its mechanism of action and design.<sup>[1](#references)</sup>.

## Review

### Semester

AY2020/21 Semester 2

### Teaching Staff

Dr Henry Mok

### Rating

* Overall: ★★★★★ (5/5)

* Interestingness: ★★★★★ (5/5)

* Usefulness: ★★★★☆ (4/5)

* Difficulty: ★★★☆☆ (3/5)

### Assessments

* 1 Final Presentation

* 1 Final Reports

* Progressive Presentations

### Grades

* Expected Grade: S

* Actual Grade: S

### Opinions

I cannot be more than glad that I happened to find this module to fulfil my faculty requirement when I browsed through NUSMods. Before my post there was no review under this module so it was rather risky for me to take this module (let alone the fact that I did not take chemistry or biology in JC). One thing that attracted me in the introduction to this module was that it focuses on "the use of computer software", and it turned out true as I took the module.

This module is largely research-based instead of content-based, and the professor spent the first few lessons on showing us what we are supposed to find out using examples of aspirin and how to use relevant softwares (e.g. Chimera, ChemDraw, etc.), and then we can choose a particular drug that we want to research on with or without a teammate. Afterwards we were asked to make short presentations on our temporary research results, and in the end we made a final presentation and submitted a final report. The purpose of this module is to show us what scientific research and presentation should be like, instead of assessing us on any content.

Prof. Mok is a very very nice and patient professor. He made it very manageable and motivating for beginners to research on rather deep topics, and set a clear direction for us to follow. Meanwhile, he provided insightful and meaningful opinions and feedbacks for our presentations, and his instructions always seemed achievable. I would like to listen to his talks or lectures again if I had the opportunity (which is hard because I am not from Biology XD).

The overall process is relaxing and enjoyable, if you enjoy doing some research. Also, almost no preliminary chemistry or biology knowledge is required for us to take this module (I have never touched these two subjects since O-Level), because it is designed for exploring our unfamiliar topics. Besides, this module is S/U-based, which means there is no exam pressure compared with other non-FMS modules. Also, team formation is voluntary and you can choose to form teams with your friend or make new friends. Whereas, doing research is never a one-off thing, hence it requires consistent but not overwhelming effort. Professor will help you make weekly goal to make the process simple and consistent if you need.

In all, this module is my favourite module in this semester and I hope that more could see this module (even by accident) on NUSMods and consider to take it :D

## Materials

* [Final Report](../../../research/pdf/somatropin-and-growth-hormone-deficiency.pdf)

---

#### References
[1] Quoted from NUSMods (https://nusmods.com/archive/FMS1218B/2020-2021/fs-how-come-aspirin-can-relieve-my-headache).