---
layout: default
title: MA2104 Multivariable Calculus
parent: Modules
grand_parent: Education
has_children: false
---

# MA2104
{: .fs-9 }

Multivariable Calculus
{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }

---

## Description

This is a module on the calculus of functions of several real variables, applications of which abound in mathematics, the physical sciences and engineering. The aim is for students to acquire computational skills, ability for 2- and 3-D visualisation and to understand conceptually fundamental results such as Green’s Theorem, Stokes’ Theorem and the Divergence Theorem. Major topics: Euclidean distance and elementary topological concepts in Rn, limit and continuity, implicit functions. Partial differentiation, differentiable functions, differentials, chain rules, directional derivatives, gradients, mean value theorem, Taylor’s formula, extreme value theorem, Lagrange multipliers. Multiple integrals and iterated integrals, change of order of integration, applications, Jacobian matrix, change of variables in multiple integrals. Line integrals and Green’s theorem. Surface integrals, Stokes’ Theorem, Divergence Theorem.<sup>[1](#references)</sup>.

## Review

### Semester

AY2020/21 Semester 2

### Teaching Staff

Prof Chin Chee Whye

### Rating

* Overall: ★★★★★ (5/5)

* Interestingness: ★★★★☆ (4/5)

* Usefulness: ★★★★★ (5/5)

* Difficulty: ★★★★☆ (4/5)

### Assessments

* 1 Final Examination - 60%

* Homework - 40%

### Grades

* Expected Grade: A+

* Actual Grade: A+

### Opinions

This module introduces fundamental multivariable calculus topics such as derivatives and integrals of scalar-valued and vector-valued functions, line integral, surface integral, curl and divergence and their applications. Prof. Chin is new to this module and hence the contents are quite different from past semesters - unlike past semesters which focused more on the application and computation of multivariable calculus, this semester we focus more on the theory, proof of relevant concepts and computation, which are considered purely mathematical. As a result, this module is considered much more difficult than before generally. Also, since the dimension is always equal to or higher than 3-dimension, it is very abstract and it might be very difficult for most to visualise the functions or their so-called geometric interpretations (understandably, if something is visualisable, it is more intuitive).

We have 5 homework assignments in total and the sum of best 4 results will be taken into account. The homework questions are relatively difficult, but I feel that they are necessary and useful in guiding us to understand the concepts. Each assignment is given 1 to 2 weeks to complete, so the time is actually quite ample if you are not deadline-driven. The final examination takes up a very high percentage of the overall result so it is very important. To me, compared with homework assignments, the exam is much easier but compared with past year papers, it is much harder. Therefore, if you can understand every single questions from homework assignments, the final exam should be doable.

Overall, when you want to take the module, you can take a look at the professor. If he or she is Prof. Chin, then the content will be very theoretical and abstract; otherwise it is likely to be more practical and application-based. If you like or are used to understanding abstract concepts or writing proofs, Prof. Chin is actually a very good choice for you!!! Otherwise please get yourself prepared to such abstractness.

## Materials

* [Notes](https://github.com/snoidetx/Snoidepaedia/blob/main/contents/education/modules/NUS-MA2104-Notes.pdf)

---

#### References
[1] Quoted from NUSMods (https://nusmods.com/modules/MA2104/multivariable-calculus).